CMP2204 Introduction to Computer Networks
Spring 2025, Term Project
Goal: The goal is to apply the concepts learned in class, through programming and hands-on
practice. At the end of this project, you will have a better understanding of how a networked
application operates and what are the technologies behind it.

Task: Design and implement a networked peer-to-peer chat application. The shared design
document (Functional Specification) specifies the necessary protocols that you need to implement. In your application you will need to implement the protocols exactly as specified.

Requirements: The application should;
1. Have 4 processes: Peer Discovery, Service Announcer, Chat Responder, Chat Initiator.
These processes should work as outlined in their respective specifications.
2. Successfully detect all available users in the Local Area Network.
3. End-user interactions: Display when a user is detected, correctly display users’ online/away presence, allow the end user to choose to display users/exchange numbers
to generate secret keys/send encrypted message/send unencrypted message.
4. Successfully chat with any available user in the Local Area Network.
5. Successfully encrypt/decrypt each peer-to-peer conversation.
6. Output a chat log, containing timestamps and content of all messages exchanged in a
chat session.

Important Notes: There will be two demo sessions, one on Week 13 and one on Week 14.
Those who present in Week 13 will receive 10% bonus. Deadline for the project is 23:59 on
Saturday, May 3 if you will present on Week 13, and 23:59 on Saturday, May 10 if you will
present on Week 14. (Late submissions will not be accepted for either cases.) Please
commit all material under the “Term Project” assignment under Resources on itslearning.
Your commits should include:
• All pieces of codes that you wrote.
• A README file describing how your program works, and known limitations of your
program (so that I run your code correctly).
• A 1-page document describing which platform (Windows/Linux) you’ve used to develop
your code, faced challenges, group members’ names and division of workload within the
group.
• Wireshark capture screenshots of one encrypted and one unencrypted message exchange,
showing you sending a text containing the names of your team members.
Please name all your files as [XXX] [filename] where XXX is your team name from the ProjectTeams.xlsx on itslearning.
Please note that only the students who present their work in the demo session
on weeks 13-14 will get a grade out of their term project.

